[Music]
ten kherington unlike dodge Henry bebe
Carrington conducted intelligence
operations against political enemies the
Copperheads and rebel conspirators
attempting to undermine the Union cause
born in Connecticut in 1824 Carrington
became an ardent abolitionist in his
youth graduated from Yale in 1845 and
taught for a while in the herbing
Institute at Tarrytown New York under
the influence of the school's founder
Washington Irving he subsequently wrote
battles of the American Revolution which
appeared in 1876 he was also to write
seven other major titles leaving New
York he taught at the New Haven
Collegiate Institute while pursuing a
law degree at his old alma mater in 1848
he moved to Ohio and entered upon a law
practice over the next dozen years
Carrington represented a variety of
commercial manufacturing banking and
railroad interests and became a pioneer
in Republican politics a close friend
and supporter of governor Salman P chase
he was subsequently appointed to a
position to reorganize the state militia
1857 he subsequently became the adjutant
general for Ohio mustering nine
regiments of militia at the outbreak of
the Civil War he then was commissioned a
colonel of the 18th United States
Infantry and took command of an army
camp near Columbus in neighboring
Indiana Governor Oliver P Morton had
need of Carrington services for reasons
not altogether clear perhaps it was his
partisan political past and/or his
ardent abolitionism Carrington was
ordered upon the request of Morton to
organize the state's levies for service
quote when Carrington arrived in Indiana
political warfare between the adherents
of the administration and its opponents
was beginning in earnest the favorite
weapon of the Republicans was that
ephemeral and elusive order the Knights
of the Golden Circle Carrington joined
in wholeheartedly
December 22nd 1862 he blamed the
appalling rate of desertion on the
treasonable secret societies his
penetration of the army was shown by
knowledge among soldiers of a battle
sign which would save them from rebel
bullets in a long report dated March
19th 1863 he described the situation as
so alarming that it bordered on open
revolt he claimed that the Knights had
92 thousand members between sixteen and
seventy who were drilling constantly
they were plotting to seize the arsenals
the railroads and the Telegraph in order
to revolutionize Indiana and quote
assert independent authority as a state
and quote they communicated with
Confederates in particular with General
Morgan whose picture hung in many homes
and whose name was daily praised
thousands of them believed the bold
Raider would shortly appear to quote
raise the standard of revolt in Indiana
if he did Carrington was sure Morgan
could raise an army of 20,000 traitors
end quote what prompted these comments
by Carrington and where did he get his
information the answer to these
questions appears to derive from the
activities of Governor Morton taking
advantage of the crisis conditions which
the war created Morton had established
himself as virtual dictator of the state
he dealt harshly with rebel sympathizers
copperheads Democrats and anyone opposed
to his rule before the end of 1861 a spy
system had been inaugurated to keep
watch of these enemies Carrington was
given charge of this intelligence
organization and thus became familiar
with the foes of the Union which it kept
under surveillance there is strong
evidence that Carrington had no desire
for combat service and twice Morton
intervened to prevent his transferal to
the front lines
thus it was important that kherington
cast himself in the role of an
intelligence chief devoted to
maintaining the security of the state
even though disaster appeared to be just
around the corner in March 1863
Carrington was promoted to Brigadier
General and a maid commander of the
District of Indiana of the Department of
the Ohio later renamed the northern
department by this time however he had
intelligence activities organized and
operating under his direction his Secret
Service quote was composed of spies
informers betrayers and outside secret
agents inside officials who were jealous
of more important leaders were worked on
the itch for money played a part in
quite a few instances unsuspecting loyal
men who had joined the castles were
amazed at the links to which love of
constitutional rights or southern
sympathies could carry the assertion of
dissent from many sources and for almost
as many motives disclosures flowed in to
Carrington's headquarters end quote
claiming to have between two and three
thousand men reporting to him Carrington
enlisted the services of almost anyone
who had provide information about an
enemy unsolicited reports were
gratefully accepted as well the amateur
sleuths and informers were supplemented
with a few choice agents and detectives
spies apparently were paid from state
funds at the rate of $100 per month over
six times the amount received by a
federal soldier quote early in 1863
Carrington claimed to have emissaries at
the meetings of the secret societies in
April 1864 he asked adjutant general
Lorenzo Thomas for money to organize a
12 man detective force one of his agents
said he had 18 men at such work early in
1864 General Alvin P Hobie who succeeded
Carrington August 25th 1864 continued
his espionage organization Colonel
Conrad Baker the state provost marshal
also employed informers who reported
directly to him
at least one of the district Provost
marshals Colonel Thompson had an agent
who worked for him among Democrats of
the seventh District he signed his
reports only as H and his identity was
not even known to Colonel Baker
Thompson's superior Carrington claimed
he participated personally in this work
once attending in disguise a meeting of
the Sons of Liberty in Indianapolis be
that as it may the general was probably
not exaggerating when he claimed to know
every morning what had happened in the
lodges the night before not only did he
have his own spies but he kept in close
touch with other officials who conducted
espionage end quote
footnote also see William Dudley Faulk
life of Oliver P Morgan vol 1
Indianapolis Kansas City the Bowen
Merrill Company 1899 pages 405 through
407 also for a view of Carrington's
spies reporting on each other and
otherwise over ingratiating themselves
with unsuspecting rebels see Treadway
pages 216 through to 17 in footnote
while Carrington's operatives were
effective in breaking up the Sons of
Liberty the Knights of the Golden Circle
and elements of the Northwest conspiracy
they also contributed to arbitrary
arrests infringement Sepang the freedom
of speech and freedom of association and
otherwise maintained a corrupt and
despotic regime the manner in which the
intelligence organization was recruited
utilizing betrayers jealous and
disgruntled officials informers and
unvalidated hearsay from unsolicited
sources caused it to traffic in
unreliable information of generally more
political than military value and the
suspicion prevails that the whole
arrangement served to maintain governor
Morton's administration and
coincidentally counteracted Confederate
not produce who happened to count among
his foes Carrington was replaced by
General Alvin P Hobie in August 1864
with less than a year of warfare ahead
of him Hobie assumed kin
trol of the espionage organization as
the new commander of the indiana
district it is not immediately evident
if he made any changes in the
intelligence operation other than to
gain access to the funds seized from
bounty jumpers to pay his agents
if the spy system did not collapse at
the end of the war it must certainly
have been discarded in 1867 when
governor Morton resigned to enter the
United States Senate Carrington was
first mustered out of service as a
brigadier general of volunteers rejoined
his old regiment in the army of the
Cumberland completed war duty and saw
Indian campaigns in the West he built
and commanded Fort Phil Kearney but lost
the respect of his fellow officers due
to his reputation as a political warrior
and his demonstrated lack of
aggressiveness in several Indian
skirmishes before a decision to remove
him from command could be implemented
Carrington became further embroiled in
controversy in December 1866 a force of
80 officers and men under Captain
William J Federman was massacred by a
force of 1,500 to 3,000 Indians the
disaster was attributed to Federman 's
disobeyin sub Carrington's ordered to
proceed on a certain route of march
instead he had directly engaged the war
party from their rear while they were
attacking a group of wood cutters the
Indians turned on Federman s force and
annihilated them because no one had
heard Carrington's orders to Federman
coupled with existing distrust of the
Colonel's leadership rumors persisted
that the men had been ordered into
tragedy General Grant moved to
court-martial Carrington but at the
suggestion of General William T Sherman
submitted the matter to a court of
inquiry which subsequently exonerated
Carrington nevertheless Carrington was
relieved of command and with his
military career ruined he resigned and
spent the rest of his life attempting to
convince the public of his innocence in
the incident he also wrote a number of
books and taught military science at
Wabash College in Indiana before
death in 1912 this is our hidden history
you